# FightLines Game Manifesto

Throughout history, transportation has been a large factor in warfare. This is obvious to the extent that troops have moved into combat and resupplied via transportation, but what has been more interesting is that transportation technology has been a factor on the battlefield as well. Tactics like flanking or exploiting openings rely on some degree of speed, and without sufficient speed they cannot be performed at all. For a long time, calvary were the fastest units on the battlefield. When calvary became obsolete in World War 1, so too did the speed dependent tactics calvary were used for. World War 1, as a consequence, was a war that happened in one place geographically, in a stalemate, as neither side could outmanoeuvre the other. For them, as their fasted combat transportation digressed from being on horseback to being on foot, the nature of combat changed in turn. Combat evolved again with the invention of the tank and the use of armored vehicles in World War 2. Armored trucks that could drive around close to the battle field could relocate infantry quickly to areas where the enemy was vulnerable. A fact about World War 2 most people find astonishing, was that Nazi Germany invaded the Soviet Union largely on horseback. They used horses to move people and supplies into Russia. They just didn't possess enough automobiles. In combat, most Nazi soldiers had to walk into combat, while ~16% arrived in armored trucks. These transportation factors mattered a lot. To the Nazis, they had to plan their operations around the fact that 16% of their army was vastly faster than the rest. 

FightLines is a turn based strategy war game about moving and resupplying troops. Common to the genre, players have infantry, artillery, and tanks, and they win by using those units to destroy their enemies; but in FightLines, players have to worry about getting their units to where they need to be, and keeping them in fighting condition via supply lines.

# Gameplay
In FightLines..
1. ..there is a "rock paper scissors" dynamic between defense, movement, and offense. A defending unit will have a huge advantage against an attacking one. A defending unit can be destroyed by moving around it, and either cutting it off from it's supplies or attacking it from behind. Units that are simply moving around will be greatly vulnerable to an attacking unit.
2. ..it is expensive to simply move troops into combat on their own. It is optimal to move them via trucks and boats. Troops far away from home will perish if they are not resupplied, which may occur if the vehicles resupplying them are destroyed en route.
3. ..you and your enemy have towns and factories, but neither of you can capture them from each other. They can only be destroyed, whereafter the no one will never benefit them again. Infrastructure and resources can't be taken, only denied from the enemy.

## Background

As a teenager I enjoyed playing Advance Wars on my nintendo DS. Later in life, I started watching youtube videos on military history, and it made me notice which parts of Advance Wars were not really realistic. I am not saying Advance Wars needs to be realistic, but seeing _how_ it wasn't realistic inspired the ideas for how a war game _could_ be. Below I drill deep down into the particular things I learned from military history that inspired the ideas behind this game. 

### Mobility
Before WWI, armies included calvary, which had the sole virtue of being fast. Their speed permitted a number of tactics. Calvary could quickly ride around and attack the enemy from unexpected directions. Calvary could chase an enemy that was trying to retreat. Calvary could rush past the frontlines and attack enemies who were relaxing and not in fighting formation. Calvary in themselves were not particularly threatening; they were only armed with swords. What was key was that they could be threatening from any direction and at unexpected times.

In the Napoleonic era, a calvary guy on a horse with a sword, charging an infantry guy with a gun, could expect to be shot at with just one bullet due to how long it would take for the infantry guy to reload. The calvary's guy's odds of survival were pretty good considering how inaccurate guns were at the time. By time WWI started however, gun technology had improved substantially, such that guns were more accurate and had a dramaticly higher rate of fire. Due to the improvements in gun technology, calvary simply did not work in WWI. They would charge into gun fire, inflict no damage, and die.

Without calvary there was no mobility, and without mobility none of the calvary tactics were possible. This defined the combat in WWI. And without calvary, all combat progressed on foot. This is why WWI was largely concentrated in one spot in Belgium. Armies met there, and could not get around each other or penetrate each others defenses. So, they stayed there for years in a stalemate. 

### Logistics
It seems like logistics matter a lot for combat. I have heard catchy comments like "war is won by logistics" or "80% of the fight is logistics". Not sure if that is a correct historical fact, but, it seems plausible, and it makes for interesting ideas in a video game. Maybe most war media focuses on battles because they are exciting when in fact a lot of the work of winning a war is getting stuff to where it needs to be; or, for that matter, stopping the enemy's stuff from getting to where it needs to be. Submarines sinking transport ships, naval blockades, and bombing rail ways have all been important parts of warfare. In real wars, battles last days, and between battles there may be months of nothing. The first 6 months of World War 2, for example, had no battles. The remaining time is spent moving things into place for the next round of combat. I say this to highlight that so much of the time of a war is just spent doing logistics.


 In video games, you just put your army guy somewhere on the map, and he is good to go. But in real life, if the _only_ thing you did was place your army guy somewhere, he would soon perish due to starvation. In real life, you need the vehicle that will move your troops into combat, and then you need a whole supply chain of vehicles to replenish them. 

### Fragility
In Advance Wars cities pump out money every turn that you can use to buy units. When you capture an enemy city, it starts pumping out money for you instead of for the enemy. That isn't realistic. I think in real wars capturing cities usually entails destroying them. Similarly, in Advance Wars you can capture an enemy factory and then use that to start producing your own units immediately. You can't do that in real wars. When the Nazis captured Soviet tank factories, they might have been tempted to use them, since soviet tanks were superior to their own. But such a thing is not possible. They didn't know how to operate those factories, nor how to operate the tanks they produced. A tank factory isn't just a tank factory, it is also part of a broader institution of people who understand those tanks.

In real life, society is fragile, and when it is destroyed in war it is gone for a long time.


